# Week 5: Quantum Machine Learning. Applying ML ideas to Quantum Circuits and vice-versa.
We look at QML from a hybrid perspective: using a Quantum Circuit together with a classical device to compute molecular parameters(variational method applications) or to find new features in images(in QNNs, for example). We also implement some simple QML projects in ``PennyLane``.

In both projects below, the molecule is simulated by a bunch of qubits and the hamiltonian is correspondingly converted into a set of Pauli Gates $\{I, X, Y, Z\}$ on the qubits using the Jordan-Wigner transformation.
- VQE.ipynb: a simple variational solver to find the ground state energy of the $H_2$ molecule. It uses a classical Gradient descent optimizer and a variational Quantum Circuit - its gates are a function of parameter $\theta$ and is to calculate the expectation value $\langle \psi(\theta)|\hat{H}|\psi \rangle$. It does so by first preparing the states $|\psi(\theta)\rangle$ and $\hat H_e|\psi(\theta)\rangle$ (the latter is easily found by applying the Hamiltonian to the circuit in its Pauli-Gate form) and then using the SWAP test to approximate the expectation value of the Hamiltonian. The classical optimizer then optimizes $\theta$ to minimize the energy $\langle \psi |\hat H_e | \psi\rangle$ and hence we find the ground state energy. Also, we get the ground state wave function $|\psi(\theta_{\text{optimized}})\rangle$. The energy and wave-function as $\theta$ is steadily optimized is also displayed. The implementation is based on [this](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_vqe.html) article in the PennyLane Demos.
- molecular_geometry.ipynb: We use similar techniques as in VQE but with a twist - we are now also trying to optimize the nuclear co-ordinates $x$, which were a constant in the VQE setup. We use another classical optimizer to optimize $x$, and explicitly compute the gradient of energy with respect to $x$ using finite differences as well. The key idea to doing this is that the equilibrium molecular geometry of a molecule is usually the one with minimum energy across nuclear parameters and wavefunction possibilities. We use the molecule $H_3^+$ in the setup and start with $\theta = [0, 0]$ and $x$ such that the three $H$ atoms form a scalene triangle. We tabulate the output data and find that indeed, the equilibrium geometry is an equilateral triangle as expected! We also compute the energy of the molecule, all three $H-H$ bond lengths and the electronic wave function(as a linear sum of basis functions) of the system. The relevant paper is [here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.13840) and the corresponding article in the PennyLane documentation is [here](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_mol_geo_opt.html).
